Improve README (#917)
Shopify/tapioca: README.md

> :warning: **Note**: This software is currently under active development. The API and interface should be considered unstable until a v1.0.0 release.

<p align="center">
  <img alt="Tapioca logo" width="200" src="misc/tapioca-logo.svg" />
</p>

# Tapioca - The swiss army knife of RBI generation

![Build Status](https://github.com/Shopify/tapioca/workflows/CI/badge.svg)

Tapioca makes it easy to work with [Sorbet](https://sorbet.org) in your codebase. It surfaces types and methods from many sources that Sorbet cannot otherwise see – such as gems, Rails and other DSLs – compiles them into [RBI files](https://sorbet.org/docs/rbi) and makes it easy for you to add gradual typing to your application.

**Features**:

* Easy installation and configuration
* Generation of RBI files for the gems used in your application
  * Automatic generation from your application's Gemfile

>   * Importing of signatures from the gems source code
>   * Importing of documentation from the gems source code

Reviewer: `gems source code` is not grammatically correct, since it is the "source code" that belongs to "gems", so should be possesive. Thus, it should either be `gems' source code` or `source code of gems`. I prefer the latter:
```suggestion
  * Importing of signatures from the source code of gems
  * Importing of documentation from the source code of gems 
```

  * Synchronization validation for your CI
* Generation of RBI files for various DSL patterns that relies on meta-programming
  * Automatic generation from your application's content
  * Support many DSL patterns such as Rails, Google Protobuf, SmartProperties and more out of the box
  * Extensible interface that allows you to write your own DSL compilers for other DSL patterns
  * Automatic generation of signatures for methods from known DSLs
  * Synchronization validation for your CI
* Management of shim RBI files
  * Find useless definitions in shim RBI files from gems generated RBI files
  * Find useless definitions in shim RBI files from DSL generated RBI files
  * Find useless definitions in shim RBI files from Sorbet's embedded RBI for core and stdlib
  * Synchronization validation for your CI

## Installation

Add this line to your application's `Gemfile`:

> ~~~rb

Reviewer 2: Just curious: any difference between using a "`" or a "~"?

Author: None as long as the style is consistent, I put back ``` everywhere 👍

  -c, [--config=<config file path>]  # Path to the Tapioca configuration file
                                     # Default: sorbet/tapioca/config.yml
  -V, [--verbose], [--no-verbose]    # Verbose output for debugging purposes
~~~

## Getting started

Execute this command to get started:

~~~sh
$ bundle exec tapioca init
      create  sorbet/config
      create  sorbet/tapioca/config.yml
      create  sorbet/tapioca/require.rb
      create  bin/tapioca
~~~

This will:

* create the default [configuration file for Sorbet](https://sorbet.org/docs/cli#config-file) and [Tapioca](#Configuration)

> * install the [binstub](https://bundler.io/man/bundle-binstubs.1.html#DESCRIPTION) for Tapioca in your app's `bin/` folder, so that you can use `bin/tapioca` to run commands in your app

Reviewer 2: It also creates the require.rb file. Should we mention that and link to somewhere explaining what it is?

Author: This is explained in details inside the `#### Manually requiring parts of a gem`. Do you think we should bring it earlier? I think this is only relevant when talking about gems RBI generation.

  -V, [--verbose], [--no-verbose]    # Verbose output for debugging purposes

initializes folder structure
~~~
<!-- END_HELP_COMMAND_INIT -->

## Usage

### Generating RBI files for gems

Sorbet does not read the code in your gem dependencies, so it does not know the constants and methods declared inside gems. Tapioca is able to load your gem dependencies from you application `Gemfile` and compile RBI files to represent their content.

To generate the RBI files for the gems used in your application run the following command:

~~~sh
$ bin/tapioca gems [gems...]

Removing RBI files of gems that have been removed:

  Nothing to do.

Generating RBI files of gems that are added or updated:

  Requiring all gems to prepare for compiling...    Done

  Compiled ansi
      create  sorbet/rbi/gems/ansi@1.5.0.rbi

  ...

All operations performed in working directory.
Please review changes and commit them.
~~~

> This will load your application, find all the gems required by it and generate an RBI file for each gem under the sorbet/rbi/gems directory. This will also import the signatures that can be found inside each gem source code as well as the YARD documentation of the gem.

Reviewer 2: Have we turned on YARD documentation by default? If not, should we mention that it requires turning it on?

Author: Good call: https://github.com/Shopify/tapioca/pull/920

```
<!-- END_HELP_COMMAND_INIT -->

## Usage

### Generating RBI files for gems

Sorbet does not read the code in your gem dependencies, so it does not know the constants and methods declared inside gems. Tapioca is able to load your gem dependencies from you application `Gemfile` and compile RBI files to represent their content.

To generate the RBI files for the gems used in your application run the following command:

```sh
$ bin/tapioca gems [gems...]

Removing RBI files of gems that have been removed:

  Nothing to do.

Generating RBI files of gems that are added or updated:

  Requiring all gems to prepare for compiling...    Done

  Compiled ansi
      create  sorbet/rbi/gems/ansi@1.5.0.rbi

  ...

All operations performed in working directory.
Please review changes and commit them.
```

> This will load your application, find all the gems required by it and generate an RBI file for each gem under the sorbet/rbi/gems directory. This will also import the signatures that can be found inside each gem source code as well as the YARD documentation of the gem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will load your application, find all the gems required by it and generate an RBI file under the `sorbet/rbi/gems` directory for each of those gems. This process will also import signatures found inside gem sources, and, optionally, any YARD documentation inside the gem.
```

```
<!-- END_HELP_COMMAND_GEM -->

> Are you coming from `srb rbi`? [See how `tapioca gem` compares to `srb rbi`](https://github.com/Shopify/tapioca/wiki/How-does-tapioca-compare-to-%22srb-rbi-gems%22-%3F).

#### Manually requiring parts of a gem

It may happend that the RBI file generated for a gem inside your `Gemfile.lock` is missing some definitions the gem seems to be exporting.

> For gems that have a normal default `require` and load all of their constants through such a require, everything should work seamlessly. However, for gems that are marked as `require: false` in the Gemfile, or for gems that export constants optionally via different requires, where a single require does not load the whole gem code into memory, Tapioca will not be able to load some of the types into memory and, thus, won't be able to generate complete RBIs for them. For this reason, we need to keep a small external file named `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` that is executed after all the gems in the Gemfile have been required and before generation of gem RBIs have started. This file is responsible for adding the requires for additional files from gems, which are not covered by the default require.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For gems that have a normal default `require` and that load all of their constants through that, everything should work seamlessly. However, for gems that are marked as `require: false` in the `Gemfile`, or for gems that export constants optionally via different requires, where a single require does not load the whole gem code into memory, Tapioca will not be able to load some of the types into memory and, thus, won't be able to generate complete RBIs for them. For this reason, we need to keep a small external file named `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` that is executed after all the gems in the `Gemfile` have been required and before generation of gem RBIs have started. This file is responsible for adding the requires for additional files from gems, which are not covered by the default require.
```

For example, suppose you are using the class `BetterHtml::Parser` exported from the `better_html` gem. Just doing a `require "better_html"` (which is the default require) does not load that type:

```shell
$ bundle exec pry

[1] pry(main)> require 'better_html'
=> true
[2] pry(main)> BetterHtml
=> BetterHtml
[3] pry(main)> BetterHtml::Parser
NameError: uninitialized constant BetterHtml::Parser
from (pry):3:in `__pry__`
[4] pry(main)> require 'better_html/parser'
=> true
[5] pry(main)> BetterHtml::Parser
=> BetterHtml::Parser
```

> In order to make sure that `tapioca` can reflect on that type, we need to add the line `require "better_html/parser"` to the `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` file. This will make sure `BetterHtml::Parser` is loaded into memory and a type annotation is generated for it in the `better_html.rbi` file. If this extra `require` line is not added to `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` file, then the definition for that type will be missing from the RBI file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to make sure that `tapioca` can reflect on that type, we need to add the line `require "better_html/parser"` to the `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` file. This will make sure `BetterHtml::Parser` is loaded into memory and a type annotation is generated for it in the `better_html.rbi` file. If this extra `require` line is not added to `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` file, then Tapioca will be able to generate definitions for `BetterHtml` and other constants, but not for `BetterHtml::Parser`, which will be missing from the RBI file.
```

For example, you can take a look at Tapioca's own [`require.rb` file](https://github.com/Shopify/tapioca/blob/main/sorbet/tapioca/require.rb):

```rb
# typed: strict
# frozen_string_literal: true

require "ansi/code"
require "google/protobuf"
require "rails/all"
require "rails/generators"
require "rails/generators/app_base"
require "rake/testtask"
require "rubocop/rake_task"
```

> If you ever run into a case, where you add a gem or update the version of a gem and run `tapioca gem` but don't have some types you expect in the generated gem RBI files, you will need to make sure you have added the necessary requires to the `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you ever run into a case, where you add a gem or update the version of a gem and run `tapioca gem` but don't have some types you expect in the generated gem RBI files, you will need to make sure you have added the necessary requires to the `sorbet/tapioca/require.rb` file and regenerate the RBI file for that gem explicitly using `bin/tapioca gem <gem-name>`.
```

Please review changes and commit them, then run `bin/tapioca gem`.
```

Once the file is generated, you should review it, remove all unnecessary requires and commit it.

#### Excluding a gem from RBI generation

It may be useful to exclude some gems from the generation process. For example for gems that are in Bundle's debug group or gems of which the contents are dependent on the architecture they are loaded on.

To do so you can pass the list of gems you want to exclude in the command line with the `--exclude` option:

```sh
$ bin/tapioca gems --exclude gemA gemB
```

Or through the configuration file:

```yaml
gem:
  exclude:
    - gemA
    - gemB
```

#### Changing the strictness level of the RBI for a gem

By default, all RBI files for gems are generated with the [strictness level](https://sorbet.org/docs/static#file-level-granularity-strictness-levels) `typed: true`. Sometimes, this strictness level can create type-checking errors when a gem contains definitions that conflict with [Sorbet internal definitions for Ruby core and standard library](https://sorbet.org/docs/faq#it-looks-like-sorbets-types-for-the-stdlib-are-wrong).

> Tapioca comes with an automatic detection (option `--auto-strictness` enabled by default) of such cases and will switch the strictness level to `typed: false` in RBI files containing conflicts with the core and standard library definitions. If is nonetheless possible to manually switch the strictness level for a gem using the `--typed-overrides` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tapioca comes with an automatic detection (option `--auto-strictness`, enabled by default) of such cases and will switch the strictness level to `typed: false` in RBI files containing conflicts with the core and standard library definitions. It is nonetheless possible to manually switch the strictness level for a gem using the `--typed-overrides` option:
```

```sh
$ bin/tapioca gems --typed-overrides gemA:false gemB:false
```

Or through the configuration file:

```yaml
gem:
  typed_overrides:
    gemA: "false"
    gemB: "false"
```

#### Keeping RBI files for gems up-to-date

To ensure all RBI files for gems are up-to-date with the latest changes in your `Gemfile.lock`, Tapioca provides a `--verify` option:

```sh
$ bin/tapioca gems --verify

Checking for out-of-date RBIs...

Nothing to do, all RBIs are up-to-date.
```

> This option can be used on CI to make sure the RBI files are always up-to-date and ensure accurate type checking. **Warning**: doing so will break your normal Rubocop workflow as every pull-request opened to bump a gem version will fail CI since the RBI will be out-of-date and will require you to manually run `bin/tapioca gems` to update them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This option can be used on CI to make sure the RBI files are always up-to-date and ensure accurate type checking. **Warning**: doing so will break your normal Dependabot workflow as every pull-request opened to bump a gem version will fail CI since the RBI will be out-of-date and will require you to manually run `bin/tapioca gems` to update them.
```

### Generating RBI files for Rails and other DSLs

> Sorbet by itself does not understand DSLs involving meta-programming such as Rails. This means that Sorbet won't know about constants and methods generated by `ActiveRecord` or `ActiveSupport`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sorbet by itself does not understand DSLs involving meta-programming, such as Rails. This means that Sorbet won't know about constants and methods generated by `ActiveRecord` or `ActiveSupport`.
```

To circumvent this, Tapioca can load your application and introspect it to find the constants and methods that would exist at runtime and compile them into RBI files.

> To generate the RBI files for the DSLs used in your application run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To generate the RBI files for the DSLs used in your application, run the following command:
```

```
<!-- END_HELP_COMMAND_DSL -->

#### Keeping RBI files for DSLs up-to-date

To ensure all RBI files for DSLs are up-to-date with the latest changes in your application or database, Tapioca provide a `--verify` option:

```sh
$ bin/tapioca dsl --verify

Loading Rails application... Done
Loading DSL compiler classes... Done
Checking for out-of-date RBIs...

RBI files are out-of-date. In your development environment, please run:
  `bin/tapioca dsl`
Once it is complete, be sure to commit and push any changes

Reason:
  File(s) changed:
  - sorbet/rbi/dsl/my_model.rbi
```

This option can be used on CI to make sure the RBI files are always up-to-date and ensure accurate type checking.

#### Writing custom DSL compilers

**TODO**

### RBI files for missing constants and methods

Even after generating the RBIs, it is possible that some constants or methods are still undefined for Sorbet.

> This might be for multiple reasons, the most frequents being:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This might be for multiple reasons, with the most frequents ones being:
```

* The constant or method comes from a part of the gem that Tapioca cannot load (optional dependency, wrong architecture, etc.)
* The constant or method comes from a DSL or meta-programming that Tapioca doesn't support yet
* The constant or method only exists when a specific code path is executed

The best way to deal with such occurrences is to manually create RBI files (shims) for them so you can also add types but depending on the amount of meta-programming used in your project this can mean an overwhelming amount of manual work.

#### Generating the RBI file for missing constants

To get you started quickly, Tapioca can create a RBI file containing a stub of all the missing constants so you can typecheck your project without missing constants and shim them later as you need them.

To generate the RBI file for the missing constants used in your application run the following command:

```sh
$ bin/tapioca todo

Compiling sorbet/rbi/todo.rbi, this may take a few seconds... Done
All unresolved constants have been written to sorbet/rbi/todo.rbi.
Please review changes and commit them.
```

> This will generate the file `sorbet/rbi/todo.rbi` defining all unresolved constants as empty modules. This file should be reviewed then committed in your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will generate the file `sorbet/rbi/todo.rbi` defining all unresolved constants as empty modules. Since the constants are "missing", Tapioca does not know if they should be marked as modules or classes and will use modules as a safer default. This file should be reviewed, corrected, if necessary, and then committed in your repository.
```

                                           # Default: true
  -c, [--config=<config file path>]        # Path to the Tapioca configuration file
                                           # Default: sorbet/tapioca/config.yml
  -V, [--verbose], [--no-verbose]          # Verbose output for debugging purposes

generate the list of unresolved constants
```
<!-- END_HELP_COMMAND_TODO -->

#### Manually writing RBI definitions (shims)

A _shim_ is a hand-crafted RBI file that tells Sorbet about constants, ancestors, methods, etc. that it can't understand statically and aren't already generated by Tapioca.

These shims are usually placed in the `sorbet/rbi/shims` directory. From there, conventionally, you should follow the directory structure of the project to the file you'd like to shim. For example, say you had a `person.rb` file found at `app/models/person.rb`. If you were to add a shim for it, you'd want to create your RBI file at `sorbet/rbi/shims/app/models/person.rbi`.

A shim might be as simple as the class definition with an empty method body as below:

```ruby
# typed: true

class Person
  sig { void }
  def some_method_sorbet_cannot_find; end
end
```

> As you migrate to newer versions of Sorbet or Tapioca, some shims may become useless as Sorbet's internal definitions for Ruby's core and standard library is enhanced or Tapioca is able to generate definitions for new DSLs. To avoid keeping outdated or useless definitions inside your application shims, Tapioca provide the `check-shims` command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As you migrate to newer versions of Sorbet or Tapioca, some shims may become useless as Sorbet's internal definitions for Ruby's core and standard library is enhanced or Tapioca is able to generate definitions for new DSLs. To avoid keeping outdated or useless definitions inside your application shims, Tapioca provides the `check-shims` command:
```

  exclude:
  - UrlHelpers
  - ActiveRecordFixtures

> ```~

Reviewer: Is the trailing `~` intentional?
